In our broadcast for this month,
we’re going to discuss
the quality of patience.
Think of how many situations we encounter
that require patience:
waiting in rush-hour traffic,
dealing with a difficult coworker,
raising a child,
overcoming marital problems,
coping with the illness of a loved one,
or maybe coping with an illness of our own.
Clearly, all of us face situations
that require us to display
a measure of patience each day.
If we don’t have patience,
we can become frustrated,
tired, and discouraged.
But no matter what our circumstances are,
all of us can develop this quality.
How do we know?
Because according to Galatians 5:22,
patience is an aspect
of the fruitage of God’s spirit,
and with its help,
we can make this quality
an integral part of our personality.
For this to happen,
let’s now answer two important questions.
First, How can being patient
help us to express our love for Jehovah?
And second, How can being patient improve
our relationship with others?
Let’s start with our first question:
How can being patient
help us to express our love for Jehovah?
Let’s consider what is stated
in 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
This chapter gives us a description
of how love manifests itself.
Please follow along as I read verse 4:
“Love is patient and kind.
“Love is not jealous.
It does not brag, does not get puffed up.”
Of all the many qualities
that stem from love,
did you note which one is listed first?
Patience.
It is an integral aspect of love.
We need both love and patience
in order to be successful
and ensure we’re on the right course,
which includes pleasing Jehovah.
If we think of situations
where a lack of patience was a factor,
we can usually identify
where a lack of love was evident.
Take, for example,
God’s chosen people, the nation of Israel.
In Psalm 106,
written many years
after Israel’s deliverance from Egypt,
the psalmist indicates that they continued
acting with a similar disposition.
Despite that,
Jehovah extended patience
to them for many years.
Please follow along as I read Psalm 106:7, 8:
“Our forefathers in Egypt
“did not appreciate your wonderful works.
“They did not remember
your abundant loyal love,
“but they rebelled at the sea,
by the Red Sea.
“But he saved them for the sake of his name,
to make his mightiness known.”
And what was the result?
Let’s read verse 13:
“But they quickly forgot what he did;
they did not wait for his counsel.”
How sad!
The people “did not wait.”
They were not patient.
And that highlights
that they did not appreciate
Jehovah’s patience and loyal love.
Love for God should have caused them
to think about the consequences
of their actions.
They should have remembered
how Jehovah cared and provided for them.
That should have moved them to be patient
and wait on Jehovah’s direction.
But time and again,
their actions showed that they really didn’t
love Jehovah as they should have.
And it cost them.
They eventually tested
Jehovah’s patience to the limit
and, as a nation, lost his favor.
What can you and I learn from their example?
Never would we want
to become independent of Jehovah,
trusting in our own thinking
and not patiently waiting
for Jehovah’s counsel
to direct the decisions we make.
Think about how well we’ve been guided
recently regarding the pandemic,
natural disasters,
and the organizing of our ministry.
Even if we didn’t fully understand
or even fully agree with all the decisions,
our love for God helped us to take the time
to think about Jehovah’s care for us
and trust him.
By doing so, we learn that if we’re patient
and submit to Jehovah’s direction,
we won’t go off course
and we’ll benefit ourselves and others.
And in doing so,
we ultimately express our love for Jehovah.
Let’s now answer the second question:
How can being patient
improve our relationship with others?
If we go back to 1 Corinthians 13:4,
the study note states:
“Patience is a quality that Jehovah and Jesus
“constantly show
in their dealings with humans.
“As imitators of Jesus and Jehovah,
Christians are to show patience to others.”
So if Jehovah and Jesus are patient with us,
it would follow that we imitate
their example and be patient with others.
Let’s start
with the greatest example, Jehovah.
Think about the patience he’s shown
in waiting to bring an end to this system.
Jehovah has a fixed day and hour
when that will take place,
and he’s patiently waiting
until that arrives.
He’s bound himself to his own timetable.
Now rest assured,
Jehovah is well aware
of how we feel as his servants.
He knows that we wish the end of this system
to come as soon as possible
and that we long
to see the fulfillment of all his promises.
And he longs to fulfill them.
But he will not become impatient
and act before his appointed time.
Why should we appreciate
Jehovah’s patience in that regard?
Please follow along as I read 2 Peter 3:15:
“Furthermore, consider the patience
“of our Lord as salvation,
“just as our beloved brother Paul
also wrote you
according to the wisdom given him.”
Isn’t that a powerful point?
Jehovah’s patience
is the means for our salvation.
Think about the number of people
who are learning the truth every year.
Even during the pandemic,
when we weren’t able to engage
in our typical house-to-house witnessing,
tens of thousands of individuals
still got baptized worldwide.
Perhaps some of those
included your Bible students,
family members, close friends,
or maybe even you yourself.
And think about this:
If Jehovah had impatiently
brought the end of this system
5, 10, or 20 years ago,
would you have learned the truth?
So we appreciate that Jehovah
is still patiently waiting
for his day to arrive
and has allowed
so many to attain to repentance
and develop a relationship with him.
How should this affect
our relationship with others?
Perhaps it can help us to be more patient
with a progressive Bible student
who still may be struggling with a problem.
Or maybe it’s still difficult
for some of our relatives to see us
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and to adjust to our beliefs and lifestyle.
But in imitation of Jehovah’s patience,
we won’t give up on them.
And, of course, reflecting
on Jehovah’s patience should move us
to continue
to have a full share in the ministry,
earnestly looking for those who
are “rightly disposed for everlasting life”
and helping them
to love Jehovah and serve him.
Then they too can benefit
from Jehovah’s patience,
just as we have.
We can also learn from the example of Jesus.
He demonstrated tremendous patience
when his disciples
were arguing among themselves
as to who was the greatest.
This apparently happened
on a number of occasions.
And no doubt,
it saddened Jesus to hear this.
But Jesus was patient with them.
He showed empathy for them.
He knew how much
the culture and the environment
in which they had been raised
affected their thinking and attitude.
That knowledge caused him to react kindly.
Note one beautiful example.
Please read with me Mark chapter 9
—Mark 9:33, 35:
“And they came into Capernaum.
“Now when he was inside the house,
“he put the question to them:
‘What were you arguing about on the road?’”
Well, we know the answer.
They had been arguing
about who among them was the greater.
Look at verse 35:
“So he sat down
and called the Twelve and said to them:
“‘If anyone wants to be first,
he must be last of all and minister of all.’”
Did you note what Jesus did?
He patiently waited for the right time
to correct them kindly.
He didn’t make a scene on the road.
Verse 33,
he waited until “he was inside the house,”
verse 35, ‘sitting down.’
He calmed the situation.
He didn’t push them.
Instead, he led them patiently by instruction
and by example.
What a great example
in avoiding becoming provoked
and, instead of acting immediately,
waiting for the right time
to address matters,
even when our patience is tested!
What else can we take away
from Jesus’ example of patience?
If you’re a parent,
can you imitate the way
that Jesus dealt with his apostles?
It may be frustrating if your children
don’t respond immediately to your counsel
or if they’re slow
in correcting their shortcomings.
Or perhaps you’re an elder
and someone you’re trying to help may be slow
in responding to Bible-based counsel.
But remember Jesus’ example.
He never gave up on his apostles.
He kept looking for the good,
expressing confidence in them,
and he patiently repeated lessons
that they needed
so that they could draw closer to Jehovah.
If we do the same, not giving up,
our patience may eventually
be rewarded as well.
So to review:
How can being patient help us
to express our love for Jehovah?
It stops us from running ahead of Jehovah,
demonstrating our loyal love for him.
Waiting patiently
for Jehovah’s direction and guidance
ensures that our course is pleasing to him.
And second, How can being patient
improve our relationship with others?
It helps us to avoid acting rashly
and to look for the good in others
and express confidence in them.
Hopefully, this discussion
will help us appreciate
the benefit of displaying
patience in our lives.
With the increasing pressures
of these last days,
we’ll need to display patience
more than ever before!
Imitating the patience of Jehovah and Jesus
will help us keep the right attitude.
We won’t become
overly discouraged or overwhelmed
by the present wickedness in this system
or even be impatient about when it will end.
Instead, we’ll stay on the right course:
keeping busy, working to develop
a closer relationship with Jehovah,
and keeping active in our ministry,
helping others to learn about Jehovah
and benefit from his patience.
May all of us keep working
to make the quality of patience
a dominant part of our personality.
As we do,
we will demonstrate how much we value
and appreciate this wonderful quality
and bring all praise and honor to Jehovah!